Domiciles domains and Tauriel We will talk about the great variety of disciplines that data science
encompasses and you probably are familiar with this Venn diagram which portrays data science as the
Intersect of three worlds computer science maths and domain knowledge.
By the way here by domain knowledge we mean the intrinsic knowledge you develop about the business or
industry you work in.
Also you might have already heard the definition that a data scientist is a person who is better at
statistics than any software engineer and better at software engineering than any statistician though
amusing these definitions are very outdated.
Their days have passed long ago.
A modern data scientist is expected to be proficient in many more disciplines and has to possess way
more skills than just programming on stats.
Personally I really like this picture.
How about we use it as a starting point in our quest to find out what data science actually is.
Starting from the top statistics because data science and was working with data and hard facts all the
time.
You have to be able to separate random noise from actual trends.
Also you need to know how to build models that classify populations and provide reliable forecasts of
future events viz. humans don't speak in ones and zeros.
A data scientist has to be able to see.
And what's even more important to show it to others.
This is why visualization is not only an art form but also crucial skill.
You have to have in your arsenal data mining along with fossilisation data mining is the creative part
of your work interrogating daughter looking for trends looking for anomalies finding things that have
never ever been seen before.
This is where you put your Sherlock Holmes hat on database and data process.
This involves everything from cleaning of data to storage and manipulation.
It's like knowing how to hold a book and to turn pages.
If you cannot perform these basic tasks then you'll never get to read the story.
Now these three pattern recognition machine learning and neuroplasticity are separate here but personally
I would put them all together.
They all care to one goal.
Teaching computers how to learn without being explicitly programmed.
This is quite an advanced realm for a dollar scientist and this is where you go once you've gotten quite
proficient at all of the other areas that we've covered off and moreover not every data scientist has
to go down this pathway because this is a very specific set of skills that's applicable to certain business
problems and challenges.
Now we've discussed everything on this picture but I think that even that is not enough.
There are a few things that I would add.
Number one communication.
A data scientist has to interact with people on a daily basis.
Not all incise are in the data.
Some things you can only learn from people who are working with that data and I will show you some vivid
examples of this further down in the course.
Therefore Adonal scientists who cannot talk to a human being for longer than five minutes is not setting
himself up for success regardless of how smart he is.
You have to be an outgoing person to be successful in this profession.
Presentation and another form of talking with people only this time it's other way around.
Are trying to put information into their heads.
I believe that this is one of the most important skills of a data scientist if not the most important
one because apart from having all the other expertise we already talked about a modern art a scientist
is the gatekeeper between insights and people.
You can derive thousands and millions of valuable business insights but if you cannot effectively communicate
them to the key decision makers then those insights are worth nothing.
Domain knowledge.
Personally I admire dollar signs so much because it is an extremely transferable set of skills.
One day you are searching for fraudulent transactions in a large mining corporation.
The next day you're building eram your model for the employees of a medical facility.
Quite likely the data scientist is the only employee who can adapt to a new organization and even industry
so quickly.
And funnily enough this example shows that she can be a successful data scientist even with far domain
knowledge.
However domain knowledge does add to your capacity to deliver insights.
You just have to do your research and develop the bulk of this domain knowledge very quickly and the
rest of it will come as you are working in this industry or in this company reallife practice the same
.
Practice makes perfect says it all.
This concept is extremely applicable to Dallasites programming.
Another important part of data assigns the better you can talk to a machine the more efficient and more
successful you will be.
If you haven't yet start learning programming today it should become a hobby.
It should be something that's just a natural part of your life.
And finally creativity.
You have to be creative.
If you can generate new ideas you might find yourself stuck as a data analyst forever to become a great
doubt a scientist.
You have to cultivate creativity inside yourself.
Allow your curiosity to guide you and help you find insights that nobody thought you would ever find
.
Those are the main disciplines and qualities that I would add to this list and to finish off let's see
what we will cover off in the course statistics visualization data mining data base and data preparation
communication presentation creativity programming and real life practice.
He'll definitely have a lot of that last one.
And as you will see some of these will cover off in more depth some and less.
But in any case here you will develop a great foundation for your data science career and in the next
tutorial we will expand on this a little more and I will show you the exact pathways you can take in
this course.
It's an important tutorial because it'll help you shape your learning journey the way you wanted.
So make sure you don't miss out on it.
And I look forward to seeing you there.